Whatever story you would like to put on paper and have recorded, that's all it is.
So give as much detail as you would like or give as little detail as you like.
It's totally up to you.
Make it sharp and sweet and...
I think that first...
Two points.
First things first.
Yes.
I know...
Is it a set question you're going to ask?
I've got a few set questions but I might flex around them.
Okay.
Do you mind if I just go through all these one by one?
There's things like growing up here, moving here, what's life like being here and just a little bit about age alive.
Okay, coming on then.
So first things first.
Before we always stop and start again.
Could you tell me your name and where you were born?
My name is Muriel Watson and I was born in Newtown, Bastia St. Kitts.
Muriel, can you remember what St. Kitts was like?
Tell me, give me as much vivid information.
What was it like?
Well, it was home.
It was nice, hot, friendly.
Of course, in 1961 I came to this country so things would be much different now I expect than when I left there.
But everybody was friendly, we were very respectful.
We had to respect the older people.
Couldn't answer back like now.
And it was just right for me.
Do you remember maybe any games you played or how did you have fun?
Well, we made up our own games then.
We'd skip, we'd sing, you know.
Yeah, we'd make our own game, hopscotch, any kind of game.
Did you have any brothers or sisters?
Yes, I had one brother and two sisters, family of four.
What do you remember then?
Well, I was the younger one, the last one.
So, well, you could call it like nowadays, the baby of the family.
Very cared for.
You know, my brother, well, he hoovered around me like over this business.
My sisters were kind even when they left St. Kitts before I did and they looked after me.
They would always send back letters and whatever they had, gifts.
So tell me about when did you arrive in the UK?
I came, pardon me, I left St. Kitts the 15th of November, 1961.
I got here the 30th of November because I came on the SS Monster Act.
Came to Southampton.
I was met by my husband, TB, then.
And we missed the last train to Wales, Newport, so we had to stay overnight in the railway station.
It was cold, very, very cold.
I was glad for the fire.
For the first time I saw a fire anywhere in the house.
You know, and the sparklers was coming everywhere.
And so we caught the next train to Newport the early morning.
They got to Newport on Friday, the 1st of December, 1961.
What was that journey over? What did it feel like? Were you nervous?
The journey over was very, very nervous.
But of course, the five of us in the cabin, we were the same in the same situation.
So we made friends, we would sing.
I was the only one in there from St. Kitts until someone in the bottom deck was being sick all the time.
So they were allowed to come up and stay with me.
So there was two of us from St. Kitts in the cabin.
And I'm very, very nervous.
I was scared, actually, of the soldiers.
So we used to make sure the doors were always locked.
And yes, we just survived.
Tell me about your first week.
On the boat or here?
Here.
My first week over here.
Well, to be honest, I came here the Friday.
The Saturday we stayed in all day.
The Sunday, my husband took me over the transporter bridge to show me, because he was working there.
So to show me where he was working, so I could go there to see if I could get the job.
I went over there on a Monday.
It was raining.
I got the job.
I started on Tuesday.
I was only here a couple of days and I started work.
There was nobody but my husband to be.
Then I realized another lady that lived in the same house, because it was nine rooms in one house,
102 Alexander Road, and the lady down the bottom.
I was up the top, lady on the bottom.
I realized that she worked there as well.
So as I said, I got the job straight away and I started.
I started on Tuesday.
It was hard.
It was cold.
It was freezing.
And I didn't like it at all.
It was raining.
It didn't stop raining.
It rained for days.
So different to send kids.
You get heavy showers there.
You get hurricane and all that, but it's so different.
It was so different.
Adopting was hard.
The only thing was that I knew as the person that I came to, that was my husband to be.
We got married the March.
And that was it.
You know, at work.
And after a few, it was hard.
I had to wear gloves.
The material you had on too was hot.
And I got used to it because I wanted to work, to occupy my time as well.
I had been staying in the one room all the time.
I was able to go.
My husband to me used to work shift, 6 to 12, to the 10.
So I knew you could see him going through during his break time.
After a while I got used to the work and I was allowed overtime.
It was 6 pounds 18 and 6 vans a week.
That would be like 6 pounds 70, 75 pence now.
If you do overtime and you do Saturday morning you'll get 9 pounds, 9 pounds and a week.
That was a lot of money then.
Of course a loaf of bread was only like a shilling, like 25 pence now.
Things were cheap.
You know, and yeah.
What do you remember of your childhood?
What was it like?
My childhood, my parents, my mother, she worked as well.
She worked in a crèche.
That's like a preschool nursery like for children.
My father was a cassandre of, like you call it, welfare person that would go around and make sure people were well being and all.
And then he worked in the district for a while then he was taken.
He worked other places.
So sometimes we would have, my father would be home all the time.
He'd be away for a week and so on.
But as I said, my parents, my mother worked.
Do you remember of any cultural or spiritual practices or any sort of practices that you brought over with yourself?
We were Moravian.
Went to the Moravian Church then.
Every Sunday we went to church.
We had to go to Sunday school as children.
We'd go to children's church.
We'd go to junior choir.
We took part in everything that the church offered.
Always go to church ever since I could remember.
What's a Moravian Church?
A Moravian Church is like the Methodist.
You heard of the Methodist?
It's like a sister church to the Methodist.
So when I came here, there was no Moravian Church in Newport.
So I went to the Methodist Church.
After a while, the Methodist Church.
First of all, I went to the church down pale.
But there were only black people there, so we didn't go there for long.
And then we found the Methodist Church.
So we went to the Methodist Church then.
And then after that, they outgrew the church.
The people were getting older.
And so they had to move.
So then I joined the New Testament Church then.
It's a faculty church.
Yeah.
So tell me a bit about living in Newport.
What was it like for you?
It was strange, different.
Didn't know anyone, as I said before.
So we worked Monday to Friday, and Saturday sometimes.
And then we go to Cardiff, where there were more people from St. Kitts,
from the Eastern Caribbean.
Every Saturday after work, we get the train down to Cardiff.
And then there were more people from St. Kitts.
Can you tell me maybe a fond memory you have of growing up,
or your early days in Newport, and then maybe, yeah,
maybe an event you went to, or?
Well, as I said, we worked, we worked Monday to Friday.
And then on Saturdays, Sundays, we'd either go to church or have a lie-in,
catch up on whatever work we had to do in the house and washing and all that, yes.
I could remember coming to Newport, I met one lady.
And of course, living in one room, we had to do laundry outside.
And I could remember her saying to me, playing,
Oh, what are you doing? She says.
With the laundry that comes every Monday, just put them in a pillowcase,
two pillowcase or three or whatever, and they'd pick it up and they'd bring it to the next day.
Oh, that was a godsend. Oh, because, you know, it was, then it was so cold, honestly.
It's cold now, but, gosh. Well.
Well, how did you spend your time socializing?
Socializing, my friends, like, you know, we would meet and we'd play with Calypso music
and we'd dance, make up our own, you know. We had fun, fun together.
So did you, so Calypso music, that's a very unique music to the east of the Caribbean.
That's not very Jamaican. No. This is Trinidad and beyond.
Calypso, Calypso, yeah. So tell me about your love of Calypso.
I do because it's just people that would make up songs on anything, anybody, you know,
and it would make sense. So when you dance into it, you really dance into what you know, like, you know. Yes.
Is there special bands that you remember that you like?
Well, the band that, yes, oh yes. They're called the steel band music.
They're made of the steel band music, not far from where I live.
My brother and his friends and others, my uncle, you know, do the steel band.
You know, the steel drum, they call it now, but steel band we call it because they make up these from the old cans.
They'll cut it and they'll shape it and they'll make the cans to music.
I like that. I like that. Even though sometimes if I hear, oh, that's steel band, like, you know,
they're not in hell and all those places, you know, you don't play the carnival at one time.
They used to have the steel drum band on there. You know, yeah.
Can you tell me a bit about, so did you, they have children?
Five children.
Can you tell me about them being raised here a bit then?
Well, my children. I had two children in the West Indies and as I said, I worked and overtime and all.
And I, 1966, 1966, I think I brought my two girls over. I went to the airport. I brought my two girls over.
Yeah, that was good. Then I started having children here myself.
I had Vasily was born here and Val and Sean, Sean, you know, Sean Wharton, he was born here.
That's my son. My two sons and my one girl born here and the other two girls were born back in the West Indies.
Thank God, all five of them have done really well and I'm grateful.
Thank you very much. I will try one for the UK.
We're flying through these questions, which is good.
Can you tell me about when you found Age Alive? How was that like and how has that been for you?
The reason I found Age Alive is we had a shalom group in our church and we were lacking of funding.
We couldn't get funding and someone of the ladies from Age Alive introduced me to the Age Alive group.
And Roy, you know, to get more funding, I expect he joined us with his group.
That's how I came to Age Alive because they got funding for us, the shalom fitness group.
How's it been for you?
Good. Actually, I did when I went there first, Vanessa was there and I knew Vanessa from, you know, we came to the same town.
She's from Trinidad? Where she from?
No, she's from St. Lucia.
St. Lucia, that's all I say.
We're from St. Lucia and we're from St. Peter and of course we had children, we're having children like, and we get to know each other.
Her children went to the same school as my children, Baineswell.
And we just, we live not far from each other then.
I came, I was living down Pail, at least we all came to Pail when we first came.
I was down in Alexander Road, top floor.
And Vanessa was with us with her aunts.
And we moved to Baineswell when it started.
After it started having the children, naturally the one room wasn't enough.
So of course the council gave us accommodation.
I had a four bedroom house up in Baineswell and Vanessa had like a three bedroom.
Not far from Victoria Street, Victoria Avenue I think.
And so then we got to know each other more.
Because we used to go, she used to go, we used to go to Cardiff as well on a Saturday.
Sometimes myself, Vanessa, and my other friend that passed, Gloria, we'd get the train and we'd go to Cardiff if our husbands were working.
And that's how I, you know, I was happy when I joined AGI Life because I knew someone there.
Apart from my Asian friends that I've met and get to know a lot now.
And Vanessa was there. So that was good.
That was good, I like that.
And with AGI Life, what made me stay there as well was the motto I liked,
respect for all. I think it's just respect now but then it was respect for all.
And I like that because you respect me, I respect you, regardless of your religion, creed or colour.
If you had to try and explain AGI Life to a 49-year-old or something, how would you try and explain it?
Oh come, come and join us. First of all you're free to come and go when you like.
There's no restrictions, no limits, no boundaries. You join in, you take part and there's something every week.
I mean we got mindfulness, we had Tai Chi, we had the singing, we had creative writing, trips,
places that I've been I don't think I would have ever gone.
Oh there's something all the time, all the time, you know.
Yes and as I said, if anything, we're human beings, anything we just say.
I go shallow and I just sit.
I mean it sounds like you've had quite good experience.
Yes, AGI Life is great, it's a great place to go.
People will find fault regardless of what you do, you cannot please everybody.
But Roy does his utmost to make sure things are put into place.
So then my final question really is going to be about the nature of this stuff, it's archived, it can last for up to 100 years.
Yes.
Would you like to leave a message for anyone or people or society or human beings or maybe the big robots, we don't know.
Be kind, be happy, you know, just love life and join as much group as you can because there are places there that you can go to if you need help.
And to socialize, there's many, many things you can do, places you can go and you can take part in.
Just be happy, live your life.
That's the myriad of things.
Be happy and be kind to each other and to yourself of course, number one.
Love yourself.
That's the philosophy.
Yes, love yourself.
A lot of people go through hard times and sometimes I sit back and I said, oh my goodness, I could understand clearly where your thoughts could play tricks on you.
Anxiety, we draw anxiety.
So you've got to bring your mind back.
Our mindfulness lady tells us, just bring your thoughts back to the present.
Be thankful for.
Have a gratitude manual.
Thank you very much.
I think that's lovely, lovely, very positive interview.
Well, I was wondering, you know, I said, oh, they got it there already.
I said, I'm not doing it anymore.
I said, they've got it there.
You know, I don't want to be Donald.
Yeah, I took that one all day, you know, years ago back a yard.
And then.
That's happy.
I'm happy to do it.
I think I think you did mention it.
So maybe this will be merged with that one just to extend it and just to give an update maybe.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
But yeah, thank you for your time.
Thank you too for having me.
Hopefully you don't you can still get to Tesco and your son and.
Is now today or you got some.
I think we're here.
Listen, there's one more coming at three o'clock.
So I've got a little while.
I'm trying to sort out a camera and my paper.
No, no, it is a good.
She can talk for today and tomorrow.
Yeah, a little bit time.
Yeah, it's only 22 now.
Well, thank you very much.
Thank you for the time.